= snapurl

Take snapshots of web pages. This is a Ruby/RubyCocoa port of the webkit2png.py script by Paul Hammond (http://www.paulhammond.org/webkit2png/) with some minor modifications.

See also: http://www.jurisgalang.com/articles/show/SnapUrl

  
== Requirements:

  * OS X only.
  * RubyCocoa (Leopard and Snow Leopard will already have this installed)
  * Ruby 1.8.7 (Ruby 1.9.x wont play with RubyCocoa)

If you intend to work with the source and do your own builds, you'll want to have the following gems installed:

  * jeweler
  * thoughtbot-shoulda
  * rcov
 

== Installation

  $ sudo gem install jurisgalang-snapurl

This gem is published at gemcutter (http://gemcutter.org), so you'll need to add it as a gem source (unless you already have):
  
  $ gem sources -a http://gemcutter.org 
  
Alternatively you can build the gem from source and install:

  $ git clone git://github.com/jurisgalang/snapurl.git
  $ cd snapurl
  $ rake gemspec install

To build and install a specific tag:

  $ git clone git://github.com/jurisgalang/snapurl.git
  $ cd snapurl
  $ git checkout -f -b `whoami`-snapurl v0.0.3
  $ rake gemspec install


== Install RubyCocoa

If you have a custom Ruby installation then you'll also need to do a custom build and install of RubyCocoa. I've bundled the latest release source and a script to do this for you:

  $ cd snapurl
  $ ./thirdparty/install-cocoa

NOTE: Your custom Ruby installation must have had --enable-shared flag on when you built it.


== Usage

Just pass a list of URLs to the snapurl script and it will take a snapshot of the pages found in those URLs:

   $ snapurl http://artists.gawker.com/                  # takes a snapshot of gawker artists
   $ snapurl http://io9.com/ http://artists.gawker.com/  # ... and io9 websites.

By default snapurl generates a set of files per URL that it processes: thumbnail, clipped, and full-sized view of the web pages in PNG format. 


== Note on Patches/Pull Requests

  * Fork the project.
  * Make your feature addition or bug fix.
  * Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
    future version unintentionally.
  * Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
    (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but
    bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
  * Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.


== License

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2008, 2009 Juris Galang

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person
obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation
files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without
restriction, including without limitation the rights to use,
copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

Except as contained in this notice, the name(s) of the above 
copyright holders shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to 
promote the sale, use or other dealings in this Software without 
prior written authorization.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT
HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
